This is half a design. The other half is right here. Because whether you're aiming for simple or stunning, imaginative or professional, design looks better when it's presented. We're going to walk through how to present one design multiple ways in both creative and professional settings so you always end up with a perfect result. First, the showcase. These are the more creative presentation techniques that are best for your portfolio and social medias. The most basic and minimal is just a plain background color seen throughout most of dribble. It is remarkably hard to find suitable backgrounds on some designs. On our light mode, the easiest way is to take our orange accent color, darken it, and desaturate it to make it a little gray since brighter colors would pop more than the design itself. Add a faint little shadow, and it already looks fantastic. But for dark mode, a popular technique is to add a subtle glow effect. We can do this by adding some large blurred circles of our accent color behind the UI. This creates a soft ambient light that makes the design feel like it's emitting light. You'll also often see a glassy background paired with a soft gradient stroke to define the edges, which adds another layer of depth. Don't underestimate minimalism when you're displaying designs. Take a look at these three. They're all using relatively bland background colors, but it works well because it makes the design itself pop. It's tough to go wrong with this and it works very well for nearly any design. Now that we have the basics down, we can start adding some more dynamic components. First up is something I call exploding the image, which for our example consists of extending these lines down and allowing our dashboard to expand off the screen. This clearly isn't super practical, but it is a cool effect. Alternatively, something like this, where we extend the pattern off the screen is an interesting effect, too. Here, we see the same thing happen to this slider, but it's also an actual UI pattern up here. The image could be cropped down like this, but by allowing it to expand, it makes it much more visually interesting. And it doesn't even need to be a piece of the UI. This design cleverly expands on the brand's visual identity by adding some important metrics to it. Now, getting a little more complex, we can do more to attract attention to our UI with a skew like this. Make sure not to skew too much, just enough to get the effect. Here, I've skewed by 2° vertically and -14° horizontally. But to draw even more attention to the dashboard, we can actually pop the dashboard out by offsetting it and adding a shadow to it. Sometimes adding a gray placeholder where the dashboard was also accentuates the effect, but it's not always necessary. But if you're presenting like a professional, then the UI should be equally as good. That's why I use Mobin, a library of hundreds of thousands of curated flows and designs that I take inspiration from. It gives access to realworld design patterns like UI components and user flows from top products which show me how real teams actually structure their products so you can see it in practice. You can check out Mobin using my link in the description to get 20% off. Now, this looks great for our singular frame, but our design has more than one screen to display. Stacking them is pretty boring and doesn't work well, so we can offset and slide them off the page slightly. This is good and works well for mobile designs in the opposite orientation, but with all this empty space, we can add in even more screens to form a collage. Importantly, try not to make sure everything lines up in a grid because that's not as interesting. And we don't need to stop there. A few degrees of rotation adds a ton of motion. Or once again, we can skew this entire thing. We can even pop out one of the frames if it's more important than the rest, like our hero section. An important note for these is the design itself should be large. Meaning landing pages are the best for this. While dashboard details are too fine to really see them, if we did want to display a dashboard, we could zoom way in to a specific section, animate it a touch, and you end up with this, which looks both creative and professional. Last but not least, images. These are the hardest to balance with the UI since it needs to be relevant but also not distract from the design. These are often better when you have a physical product like a coffee shop or a car on a landing page. Although something like this portfolio template has integrated the images with the UI exceptionally well without being overbearing. For softwares, sometimes fluid gradient images work well, but typically you'll see one of the previous methods used instead. So far, we've made our designs look amazing for our portfolio. But these strategies won't work as well in client meetings. Because the goal isn't to wow them. It's to build confidence in the product. When you present your work in a clear and realistic context, the client can truly understand what the final product is going to look like. And the best way to immerse a client in the design is through mock-ups. Not only do these look polished, but they show your product where it will ultimately be used. Even a simple computer without much else does a lot to frame our design. If we wanted to take it a step further, a lifestyle mockup where the UI is actually being used, like this iPad or even an Apple Watch screen can really elevate the design. Now, there are a lot of great free mock-ups out there, but sometimes you want it to feel fully custom. Now, I don't think that AI is great at making thoughtful UIs, but it is good at making mock-ups. The gold standard is to use the latest Apple product, so that's what we'll be doing. A prompt like MacBook Air, green screen on screen on an orange faux leather padded chair, notebook and stool in background, background blurred, soft shadows, moody lighting, natural, lived in. Literally 30 words later and we get out something that looks like this. We just punch out the green background and skew in our design and we've got a custom product mockup in 2 minutes. But it doesn't stop there. Minimal concrete cylinders with small cracks, beige living room with water stain. It's the small details that sell the entire experience, just like with any UI design. And with AI, you can create any experience. This skill is also very useful if you're designing in e-commerce since highquality product mock-ups are the difference between great and disastrous designs. Finally, prototyping. Don't describe, show. This allows the user to see the experience with a visual mockup and then feel the experience with a working mockup. It also lets you display intuitive but hidden features like common swipe actions. Or for a dashboard, it could be showing how this create link modal elegantly animates in. Or the animation sequence that happens when you delete a link. It's these small details that communicate a level of polish and thoughtfulness that static images simply can't. And there we have eight different ways of displaying your work in both creative and professional settings. The link to check out Mobin and get 20% off will be the first one down below. And I've also put all of the design resources used in this video down there, too. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.