If you want to build swipe interactions that feel crazy good like this, then stick around because it's the interactions that turn a UI into an experience. So, we'll be breaking these down into three broad categories. Within page navigation, between page navigation, and swipe gestures. Let's break it down. Because a phone is obviously much smaller than desktop, we get to use the edges of the display for some pretty unique effects. A common starting point is scrolling cards. These are better than stacking things vertically, but swiping through these feels very rigid. Opening up the easing curve to give it some more bounce makes this feel much more natural, allowing the cards to carry more momentum. Easing and bounce are remarkably important to make lifelike interactions. Almost never do you want a linear ease. Things in real life speed up and slow down. And by playing with that curve, we transform animations. It also helps provide tone like snappy and performant, fun and springy, or slow and smooth. But now we can take things a step further. Skewing the cards like this off the edge of the screen, we give the effect that we have a three-dimensional ring of cards that we can swipe through. This looks really good so far, but taking into account good UX, we should add some indicators down here. Now, these can be boring, just highlighting on swipe, or let's add a fluid effect on swipe that feels kind of magnetic. We'll actually be revisiting this cool effect a little later in the video. One fantastic use of the side of the phone is to treat it as a type of horizon that shrinks things that get closer to it. Pair it with a circular swipe motion and we end up with something like this. Just like in the previous example, the idea is to provide the user with the feeling that they have a spool of data that they can access with the swipe of their fingers. We can also go full screen by swiping down, but importantly, we have our black background that can be clicked or swiped to change modes. And that's a common duality that you'll see. Swipe interactions are readily available and intuitive. But for the uninitiated, there are also buttons to give the user options. For example, in Gmail, we can delete by swiping or we can click and hit delete, providing multiple ways to interact with the same UI. But if you're serious about designing like a professional, then you should check out the sponsor of this video, Zero to Mastery. They have a ton of fantastic road maps like their UIUX design career path which guides you through seven courses and 137 hours of instruction to take you from complete beginner to landing design jobs. With a Discord community of over a half a million students, you'll be joining a thriving community of learners. And there's even an accountability channel where you can team up with someone to keep you motivated. And these aren't just surface level courses either. Each one includes in-depth video instruction helping you build real world practical systems. Plus, you'll earn a certificate of completion once you finish a course to showcase on your resume or portfolio. If you're interested, the link and promo code will be below to get you 10% off. Navigation between pages doesn't need to be as lame as this. This could actually be a swipe action, but instead, let's make it a little more fluid. Instead, swiping up will take us to the recipe page, but let's slow that down a little bit and take a closer look at it. When we swipe up, the card underneath expands to be the same size as the screen. At the same time, the black tab expands to also be the entire screen, and then the content fades up and in. Finally, we complete the fluid look with this elastic snap at the very top. The way to make these seamless transitions is to make the motion feel natural by following the direction of the swipe with a background and new content sliding up and in. This is a principle that we'll see in action in the next example, too. This is a simple onboarding flow, but instead of just a button to slide us over, we have a button that is clickable or swipeable. And by making the motion follow the direction of the swipe and then wrap around into the next slide, we make it super fluid. It might make more sense how this works if I zoom out and show you everything. We start with a circle that expands very large and move the content out. Then we swap the circles out and shrink that one back down and move the new content in. It's actually a pretty simple effect when you see it like this. Now, those are all well and good, but they're fairly complex, but even something similar like this is just so much better than sliding a new page in. This swipe creates continuity because we have this image actually zooming in to become the new hero image and it makes your navigation experience just so much more seamless. Finally, swipe gestures. These are used to provide functionality that could replace a button or reveal more context. Apple really likes to use these all the time in their applications. For example, if we had an app like this to create groups with friends, we could have a plus button here. Or we could have a swipe interaction like this to add them using the same effect as our first scrolling cards indicator. Now, would it probably be good UX to have another option like a long press to bring up a menu? Probably. But once users understand that they can swipe, it's generally a much more seamless flow and faster way of interacting with the app. Another great use of gestures is for dismissing popovers and pages because it's so quick and often intuitive, which is again why Apple uses this gesture everywhere. Especially for this popup from the bottom, it's pretty clear to swipe down. Of course, buttons are included just in case it's not immediately obvious. But what's really adding to the effect is the zoom out and move down of the background when the popover appears and then the opposite movement when we dismiss it. Another relatively common use of swipe gestures in real applications are confirmations. The email sender resend uses it to confirm sending an email since it's just much easier to accidentally click a button than it is to slide a slider all the way across the page. These are great for high impact or irreversible actions such as purchasing crypto in this example. And that is how you create some of the most intuitive and userfriendly swipe interactions possible for mobile applications. The link to check out Zero to Mastery will be the first one down below. And I've also put the link to all of the assets used in this video down there, too. Thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next one. [Music]